not unlike a giant cosmic blinker
a super massive black hole 570 million
light years away
flares every 114 days
recently astronomers have noticed
powerful eruptions of light coming from
the hole
the monstrosity is about 20 times the
mass of the one at the center of our
home milky way galaxy
so far the only explanation scientists
have
is the black hole is ripping chunks of
matter out of an orbiting star
it happens every time it gets too close
this discovery is rather exotic because
no one has ever seen a black hole do
something like that before
usually if a star comes close to a black
hole
the space monster shreds it into thin
strands
like spaghetti after that the black hole
swallows most of the star's matter
the remains arc away in long bright
streamers
but not in this case every time the star
approaches the black hole
it loses about three times the mass of
jupiter
and that's the largest planet in our
solar system
this also results in a tremendous flair
that astronomers can see on earth
the flares are so regular and consistent
that the researchers managed to predict
several of them
they happened on september 6th and
december 26th
2020 a nebula is a cloud of dust and gas
in outer space
you can see it in the night sky either
as a bright patch
or vice versa a dark spot against some
glowing matter
the red rectangle nebula in the
constellation monoceros
or the unicorn is unlike others
our universe has very few straight lines
and
here you are looking at a giant
rectangle which is a huge gaseous nebula
no less and then there's also the color
a bizarre shade of orange red
astronomers suppose the glow might be
coming from some
unusual activity inside the dust
clusters
this activity is likely to be going on
at the molecular level
the universe is around 13.8 billion
years old
but hd140283 a star
informally called methuselah is
apparently
more than 14 billion years old even more
paradoxical
the star has some chemical elements that
are more typical
for a second generation star those are
the ones formed from dust
and gas left after the explosion of the
first generation of stars
and still the main problem is how can a
star
be older than the universe itself so far
the most likely explanation is an error
in observations
it could make astronomers believe the
star is older than it is
the star called vega is relatively close
to us
a mere 25 light years away from the sun
it's not the most usual star out there
it's brighter than it's supposed to be
and it's not round but rather egg-shaped
astronomers claim that's because the
star rotates so
fast its shape changes see for yourself
it takes the sun 27 days to make a
rotation
and vega needs only 12 and a half hours
to turn on its axis
this speed also influences the
temperatures on the star's surface
its poles are several thousand degrees
hotter than the equator
there's a super massive black hole 250
million light years away from earth
it produces the deepest sound ever
detected from any object in the universe
it's one quadrillion which is one with
15 zeros
times deeper than what the human ear can
hear
[Music]
the fermi bubbles confuse astronomers to
no end
it's not every day that our home galaxy
blows bubbles
that are hotter than 7 million degrees
fahrenheit
coming from the center of the milky way
galaxy the spheres
are made up of nothing but powerful
gamma rays
it would be a bit less strange should
one bubble stay inside the other
with both of them at the center of the
galaxy's core
but the two giant spheres hover
independently above
and below the black hole at the center
of the milky way
even more bizarre they touch and form an
hourglass shape
it makes the entire structure look like
the number eight
the bubbles themselves are well defined
and slightly sharp edged
they're also breathtakingly enormous
spanning a total length
of fifty thousand light years
scientists have yet to crack several
mysteries connected with the fermi
bubbles
like what can produce such extreme
energy
it's as powerful as 100 000 exploding
supernovae
or what's with the off-center nature of
the bubbles
something must be going on there even
though it seems that the bubbles
surround
nothingness k2 141b
a planet outside of our solar system
seems to be not that different from
earth
if you visited it you'd see liquid
oceans evaporating into the atmosphere
just like on our home planet the vapor
then condenses
and gets back to the surface as rain but
instead of water all this happens with
rock
the surface of the unusual exoplanet is
covered with
lava seas in most places they're tens of
miles deep
and since the temperatures on the planet
reach 5000 degrees fahrenheit during the
day
the magma in the oceans vaporizes into
the atmosphere
after that supersonic winds moving at a
speed of one mile per second
carry the rock vapor to the planet's
night side
there the vaporized magma cools down
becomes liquid again
and falls to the surface as rocky rain
far away neptune-sized exoplanet gliese
436b is a paradox
it's made of scorching hot ice
the planet completes one full orbit
around the red dwarf
gliese 436 in two days 15 hours
which means it travels remarkably close
to its parent star
that might be the reason why the
planet's temperatures rarely drop below
800 degrees fahrenheit but the strangest
thing
the planet has huge volumes of water ice
known as ice x it remains solid
despite blistering temperatures
neutrinos
are teeny almost massless particles that
can move at nearly the speed of light
they can easily pass even through metals
and travel miles and miles without
anything to stop them
you can be sure that some neutrinos are
passing through your body right now
while you're watching this video
these elusive subatomic particles get
born
in supernova explosions and in nuclear
reactions
inside stars about
4 000 light years away from earth in the
constellation of serpents
there's a bizarre planet astronomers
think it could once be the core
of a massive star long gone now
five times the size of earth it seems to
be one
enormous diamond the planet is denser
than
any other discovered so far and is made
up of mostly carbon
it's so dense that astronomers think
this carbon
might be crystalline it means that at
least some part of the planet
is diamond most stars move around the
center of their galaxies
following fixed orbits but not he
0437-5439 this
30 million year old star that appeared
not far from the center of the milky way
decided to set off on a journey
astronomers think the star
might have come across the supermassive
black hole
sagittarius a star and the space monster
might have pushed the star out of the
galaxy it's now traveling through the
milky way's outer halo
moving right into interstellar space at
a speed of
six hundred thousand miles per hour
stellar halos
surround galaxies and are home to stars
and star clusters
this discovery turned out to be
extremely confusing
such short-lived massive stars because
tens or even hundreds of millions of
years is a very young age for a star
aren't usually found in the halo there
you can only encounter the oldest stars
in our galaxy
those that are at least 10 billion years
old
when disastrous magnetic field
collisions occur
at the sun's equator they cause
ginormous tsunamis of plasma
these tsunamis move across the star
surface
at a speed of 1000 feet per second
such a tsunami can last for weeks at a
time
they happen almost every decade more
than 7 000 light years away from earth
there is the eagle nebula it's a young
cluster of stars
just 5.5 million years old
the hubble space telescope managed to
take an image of several dark
silhouettes near the nebulous center
those are the so-called pillars of
creation towering tendrils of
interstellar gas and dust
they're also a part of the nebula's
active star-forming region
newborn stars are hidden in these wispy
columns
unlike their supermassive siblings
hypothetical
mini black holes could be really tiny
not bigger than an atom
but even so just one minuscule thing
would have the mass
of a thousand sedans one theory claims
tons of micro black holes could have
appeared right after the big bang
and the beginning of the universe some
scientists
even go as far as to say that several
mini black holes
pass through our planet every day
totally unnoticed scientists think
white holes might exist even though none
has been found yet
when some space object comes across a
white hole
it can't enter it from the outside but
light and matter can escape
from within the hole